# DEVELOPMENT GUIDE

## General Information

- Please ensure that all code conforms to the [PEP 8 Standards](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/). You should feel free to leverage tools such as [`black`](https://github.com/psf/black).
- All objects must include detailed docstrings that conform to [PEP 257](https://peps.python.org/pep-0257/). Please see prior work in `tmnt_dsl.core` for reference.
- Only work off the `dev` branch, and create branches for each aspect of the project that you are working on. You do not need to create a new branch for each feature you develop, but this is recommended. To the extent possible please create issues for each feature/bug and associate those with a branch/pull request. When you are finished with a feature/bug, please generate a pull request back to `dev`.
  - Pull requests will be rejected if they do not conform to the two PEP standards specify or if they do not contain sufficient detail in the docstrings.

## To Dos - Spring 2024

We have provided detailed to do's for each part of `tmnt_dsl` that need to be built/modified as well as recommended number of team members. Additionally, we have given more detailed requirements for the Web Application, but we are not specifying the exact steps needed to be taken. Feel free to use your own organizational methods to assign tasks, track progress etc.

Each week, we'd like the following to be done for the Monday meeting:

- An updated waterfall of where the project stands across each of the four workflows (specified below)
- All code that needs to be reviewed either to be merged in `dev` or at least have a pull request.
- A version of the web app available for testing via Docker. We understand that this may not change every week, but we would like to ensure that we are able to test the app/play around with it at our leisure, i.e. there's a working build available.

Before our meeting on January 24, please make sure you have assigned out all the issues that have been generated, and create any additional issues (and assign them) that pertain to the development of this part of the project and/or the [web app](https://github.com/mirarj/nltm_tool). Also update this document to reflect who's working on which section (and assign the issues to these team members). There are several issues currently logged that can be used as a starting point.

### DSL (tmnt_dsl.core)

Team member(s): Christopher (@mrtoaf)

This is the underpinnings of the project. You should ensure that there are method calls that encourage natural threat modeling techniques as we have discussed.

### DSL Utils (tmnt_dsl.core)

Team member(s): Christopher (@mrtoaf)

This will be the utilities that allow the core DSL to function, and can include additional parts that are useful for users in building their own threat models and/or extending the DSL.

### Recommendation Engines (tmnt_dsl.engine)

Team member(s): Caroline (@carolinejchin) and Mira (@mirarj)

This is where findings would be automatically generated by matching Issues (such as Threats or Weaknesses) to relevant Controls as well as Components (and specifying any criteria for the components that is required). You can use the pytm threats file to help you build an initial set of rules.

Tasks:

- Create initial `rules` that are set of deterministic rules based on the current data loaded in `tmnt_dsl.utils.sources`. These rules should assign
  weaknesses (and in turn threats and mitigations) to various `Asset` and `Flow` objects that are created by the user. - The applicability should change as the user provides more information - These rules should be expanded as more data is incorporated into `tmnt_dsl.utils.sources`. - Users should be able to specify their own rules as well, so there should be an API to do this, via creating a `Rule` object
- Using a LLM (feel free to experiment with various models such as GPT-3), create an engine that can assign weaknesses, threats, and mitigations to an user's threat model as well as provide suggestions of other weaknesses, threats, and mitigations that have not been specified in `tmnt_dsl.utils.sources`.
  - This implementation should ensure that it follows the natural pattern that we have previously discussed, i.e. an user specifies if they want to identify threats, add current controls, generate a finding, or look at/edit another part of the threat model

### Visualizations (tmnt_dsl.visual)

Team member(s): Richard (@Rz2750) (+ anyone working on the Web App?)

Here you'll need to generate SVG objects (or something similar) that will allow the web app to visualize the threat model as well as allow the user to export the threat model as a report including the DFDs and other diagrams.

Tasks:

- Create `Diagram` object, this should serve as a parent for additional objects that cover all the diagrams that `pytm` can generate i.e., a dataflow diagram and a sequence diagram.
- Create `Report` object that produces skeleton HTML code that can be loaded into a web browser (and be leveraged by the web application you are developing). This should also be able to generate a pdf version of the report as well, similar to `pytm`.
- For both `Diagram` and `Report`, the user should be able to specify what parts of the TM they want to generate these for, whether that's specify specific objects or different levels of the diagram.

### Web App ([Mira's repo](https://github.com/mirarj/nltm_tool), [Chris's repo](https://github.com/mrtoaf/nltm_tool-webapp))

Team member(s): Madison (@MAR2024) and Richard (@Rz2750)

Recommend looking at the following applications for some inspiration about how to design the UI: [threat-composer](https://github.com/awslabs/threat-composer), [OWASP Threat Dragon](https://www.threatdragon.com/#/), [Microsoft Threat Modeling Tool](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security/develop/threat-modeling-tool), [Deciduous](https://www.deciduous.app/).

Tasks:

- Generate series of wireframes that shows the UI and the various features you want to have.

Requirements:

- Place application in a container such that the application can be run in its own environment
- Users should be able to edit both via a GUI and via a code text box where they can write custom `tmnt_dsl` code.
  - The GUI can follow a form layout, where they create new objects and specify the attributes/relationships.
  - The code editing should be both a full threat model as well as specifying certain objects (rather than everything) in the threat model.
  - Users should be able to export a `tmnt_dsl` project, where they could build their own reports etc
  - The entire `tmnt_dsl` API should be available to users via both these mechanisms.
- Users should be able to select aspects of the diagram (assets, flows, actors) and are then prompted if they want to look at related threats, controls, and flows.
  - The user can specify which engine(s) they use
  - The information provided should be generated from `tmnt_dsl.engine`.
  - The diagram should be rendered using D3 (or an equivalent library) and making calls to `tmnt_dsl.visual` as needed (it is not required to use `tmnt_dsl.visual` to build the graphics).
- Users should be able to save their threat models to their local machine as well as load a saved output (this does not necessarily have to be `tmnt_dsl` source files, but instead could be a pickle).

#### Bonus

This should not be attempted until all other requirements have been satisfied and approved.

- Deploy the web app to a hosted service
- Add the ability for users to create accounts and save threat models to the hosted service
- Allow users to create sessions that they can share with other users that allows:
  1. For the other users to "observe" the threat model
  2. Actively edit the threat model
  3. Permissions (such as read/write/access) can be specified by an user

#### Notes from End of Semester

other

- rebase dev into main (main branch 2-3 commits ahead of dev)
- type annotation for different python versions (generic list type works currently with python 3.11, but would be better to have lists of specific types)
- property getters/setters missing in various places
- enforce unique controls, implement control catalog
- remove_introduction, remove_detection_method in Weakness

update yaml/documentation

- required_skills, required_resources in Threat should be lists of dicts, not strings
- conditions in Weakness should be something else
- mitigations is list of dict for weakness and list of str for threat
- change description to desc
- add_elem/remove_elem removed in component
- required attributes for Control
- added related attr for Control
